[Weave] New onboarding experience (#1929)
wandb/docs: weave/quickstart-inference.mdx

---
title: Learn Weave with W&B Inference
---

import { ColabLink } from '/snippets/en/_includes/colab-link.mdx';
import { GitHubLink } from '/snippets/en/_includes/github-link.mdx';
import WeaveQuickstartPrereqs from "/snippets/en/_includes/weave-quickstart-prereqs.mdx";

<div style={{ display: 'flex', gap: '12px', flexWrap: 'wrap' }}>
<ColabLink url="https://colab.research.google.com/github/wandb/docs/blob/weave/onboarding-revamp/weave/cookbooks/source/learn-weave-with-inference.ipynb" />
<GitHubLink url="https://github.com/wandb/docs/blob/weave/onboarding-revamp/weave/cookbooks/source/learn-weave-with-inference.ipynb" />
</div>

> This guide shows you how to use W&B Weave with [W&B Inference](https://docs.wandb.ai/inference/). Using W&B Inference, you can build and trace LLM applications using live open-source models without setting up your own infrastructure or managing API keys from multiple providers. Just obtain your W&B API key and use it to interact with [all models hosted by W&B Inference](https://docs.wandb.ai/inference/models/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to use W&B Weave with [W&B Inference](https://docs.wandb.ai/inference/). Use W&B Inference, to build and trace LLM applications using live open-source models without setting up your own infrastructure or managing API keys from multiple providers. With your W&B API key, you can interact with [all models hosted by W&B Inference](https://docs.wandb.ai/inference/models/).
```

## Prerequisites

> - A [W&B account](https://wandb.ai/signup)

Reviewer: You can replace this bit with the `weave-quickstart-prereqs`? Not required, but you already went through the work to create it :)

- Python 3.8+ or Node.js 18+
- Required packages installed:
  - **Python**: `pip install weave openai`
  - **TypeScript**: `npm install weave openai`

## Trace your first LLM call

> Start with a basic example that uses Llama 3.1-8B through W&B Inference. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, copy and paste the following code example. The code example uses Llama 3.1-8B from W&B Inference. 
```

result = ask_llama("What are the benefits of using W&B Weave for LLM development?")
print(result)
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="TypeScript">
```typescript lines
import * as weave from 'weave';
import OpenAI from 'openai';

> // Initialize Weave - replace with your-team/your-project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Initialize Weave - Replace values enclosed in "<>" with your own.
```

// Create an OpenAI-compatible client pointing to W&B Inference
const client = new OpenAI({
    baseURL: 'https://api.inference.wandb.ai/v1',  // W&B Inference endpoint
    apiKey: process.env.WANDB_API_KEY || 'YOUR_WANDB_API_KEY', // Replace with your API key or set the WANDB_API_KEY environment variable
});

// Wrap your function with weave.op to enable tracing
const askLlama = weave.op(async function askLlama(question: string): Promise<string> {
const response = await client.chat.completions.create({
    model: 'meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct',
    messages: [
    { role: 'system', content: 'You are a helpful assistant.' },
    { role: 'user', content: question }
    ],
});
return response.choices[0].message.content || '';
});

// Call your function - Weave automatically traces everything
const result = await askLlama('What are the benefits of using W&B Weave for LLM development?');
console.log(result);
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Build a text summarization application

Next, try running this code, which is a basic summarization app that shows how Weave traces nested operations:

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">
```python lines
import weave
import openai

> # Initialize Weave - replace with your-team/your-project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Initialize Weave - Replace values enclosed in "<>" with your own.
```

Reviewer: This comment, suggestion applies to the remainder code snippets.

const client = new OpenAI({
  baseURL: 'https://api.inference.wandb.ai/v1',
  apiKey: process.env.WANDB_API_KEY || 'YOUR_WANDB_API_KEY', // Replace with your API key or set the WANDB_API_KEY environment variable
});

// Create model functions using weave.op (weave.Model is not supported in TypeScript)
function createModel(modelName: string) {
  return weave.op(async function predict(question: string): Promise<string> {
    const response = await client.chat.completions.create({
      model: modelName,
      messages: [
        { role: 'user', content: question }
      ],
    });
    return response.choices[0].message.content || '';
  });
}

// Create instances for different models
const llamaModel = createModel('meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct');
const deepseekModel = createModel('deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324');

// Compare their responses
const testQuestion = 'Explain quantum computing in one paragraph for a high school student.';

console.log('Llama 3.1 8B response:');
console.log(await llamaModel(testQuestion));
console.log('\n' + '='.repeat(50) + '\n');
console.log('DeepSeek V3 response:');
console.log(await deepseekModel(testQuestion));
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ## Step 4: Evaluate model performance

Reviewer: None of the other sections have step numbers. Suggest removing.
